now Yemen's houthi Rebels claimed they
attacked two ships in the Red Sea but
and Israeli spokesperson has denied the
group's claims that the vessels were
linked to Israel according to the
Pentagon an American warship also came
under attack Iran backed houthis did not
mention the US vessel but said the
attacks would continue as long as Israel
continues its war with Hamas the
incidents come amid heightened tensions
in the Red Sea and surrounding Waters
after houthis seized an Israeli link
cargo
vessel last
month our correspondent Janelle Duman in
Washington is following those
development welcome Janelle what more do
we know about the attack on the US
warship well the US warship in question
is the USS Carney now that is a
destroyer it's part of the USS Gerald R
Ford carrier strike group now if you
remember that was the carrier strike
group that was deployed to the region in
the aftermath of October 7 when Hamas
attacked Israel we know that the attack
started at approximately 10:00 a.m. s
time it lasted for around 5 hours and
the us as Carney reportedly opened in
self-defense we've since heard that it
managed to shoot down two hooti uh two
hooti drones now this incident is
thought to be significant because even
as we have been seeing a ramping up of
hooti attack attacks on vessels in the
region this is the first time that
multiple vessels have been involved in a
single hooti attack saying that however
the USS Carney did not sustain any
damage no injuries were reported on
board analysts seem to believe that this
was much more about sending the US Navy
a message than causing any real damage
however as we have been hearing this is
uh just the latest in a series of
attacks and there's no reason to assume
that it will be the last and so what
role is the US military playing in the
Red
Sea well it's important to note that
even before the October 7 attack on
Israel the US Navy had already been
bolstering its presence in the region
we're talking thousands of troops we're
talking different kinds of war planes
Naval vessels and the reason that
Washington has always cited is uh the
protection of the free flow of trade and
the freedom of navigation this is of
course an important Waterway for global
trade it's a shortcut between Asia and
Europe but zooming beyond that it's
become important to Washington to
underline its role there as a very
important security actor especially
because of the shifting relationships in
the region between the gulf countries
themselves but also with us strategic
competitors like Russia and China so
it's become very important to Washington
to enlarge its presence there to show
that it is very much there as a
deterrent presence as well and of course
October 7 happened and that added
another layer of volatility to the
region and increased reason for the US
to be uh to be active okay thanks for
that Janelle at us correspondent Janelle
dumala